{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The IEEE Congress of Evolutionary Computation (CEC) is one of the largest, most important and recognized conferences within Evolutionary Computation (EC). It is organised by the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society in cooperation with the Evolutionary Programming Society and covers most of the subtopics of the EC.\
\
In order to validate the potential of the NMMSO algorithm, it was submitted to the IEEE CEC 2015 held in Sendai, Japan. Here, Dr. Fieldsend was provided with some multimodal benchmark test functions with different dimension sizes and characteristics, for evaluating niching algorithms developed by Dr. Xiaodong Li, Dr. Andries Engelbrecht and Dr. Michael G. Epitropakis [@epitropakis_2013]. They state that even if several niching methods have been around for many years, further advances in this area have been hindered by several obstacles; most of the studies focus on very low dimensional multi-modal problems (2 or 3 dimensions) making this more complicated to asses theses methods\'92 scalability to high dimensions with better performance. The benchmark tool includes 20 test functions (in some cases the same function but with different dimension sizes), which includes 10 simple, well-known and widely used benchmark functions, based on recent studies, and more complex functions following the paradigm of composition functions. In the following section, they will be briefly explained:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qj
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}F1: Five-Uneven-Peak Trap (1D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F2: Equal Maxima (1D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F3: Uneven Decreasing Maxima (1D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F4: Himmelblau (2D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F5: Six-Hump Camel Back (2D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F6: Shubert (2D, 3D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F7: Vincent (2D, 3D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F8: Modified Rastrigin - All Global Optima (2D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F9: Composition Function 1 (2D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F10: Composition Function 2 (2D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F11: Composition Function 3 (2D, 3D, 5D, 10D)\
{\listtext	\'95	}F12: Composition Function 4 (3D, 5D, 10D, 20D)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qj
\cf0 \
All of the test functions are formulated as maximisation problems. F1, F2 and F3 are simple 1D multimodal functions, while F4 and F5 are simple 2D functions and not scalable. F6 to F8 are scalable multimodal functions. The number of global optima for F6 and F7 are determined by the dimension. However, for F8, the number of global optima is independent of the dimension, therefore it can be controlled by the user. F9 to F12 are scalable multimodal functions constructed by several basic functions with different properties (Sphere function, Grienwank, Rastrigin, Weierstrass and the Expanded Griewank\'92s plus Rosenbrock\'92s function). F9 and F10 are separable, and non-symmetric, while F11 and F12 are non-separable, non-symmetric complex multimodal functions. The number of global optima in all of the composition functions is independent of the number of dimensions, therefore can be controlled by the user [@epitropakis_2013].\
\
**Maybe write each math equation or the R code**\
\
Besides the 12 different functions, also, a $count_goptima$ function was included in order to find the optimal value for each evaluated function in each iteration. Here, some optimal values are already given as well as the number of each value to find. Together with an accuracy rate, the evaluation starts in a cycle and stores the possible optimal values in order to be compared with the expected values using the accuracy rates of 0.1, 0.01, 0.001, 0.0001 and 0.00001 for each different iteration. Once the optimal values are found and after comparing them with the same results of the Matlab implementation, it can be concluded that the new implementation works as expected and is ready for submission.\
\
**Explain maybe a little bit more, maybe a pseudocode**\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qj
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_Congress_on_Evolutionary_Computation"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_Congress_on_Evolutionary_Computation}}}