{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In difference to the original implementation it was chosen to split up all single functions of the nmmso algorithm into single files. These were bundled into the standard R package structure to give the possibility to make it available over CRAN[^2] in the future. To and give the possibilty to collaborate the project was managed and versioned via Github. The package was tested with testthat[^3] and documented with roxygen2[^4]. To assure functioning the package was continuously tested with Travis CI.\
\
After analysing the algorithm provided in Matlab by Dr. Fieldsend, it was decided to first translate each of the functions into the R programming language. At first instance, this task seemed to be simple because most of the functions were basically managing matrices and vectors, but later this became a problem that will be covered in the pitfalls\'92 section (4.2) of this paper.\
\
Once all the NMMSO functions existed in R and having the input data, the testing phase started. It has been said, that one of the biggest problems when coding an already existing program into another programming language, is the different behaviours corresponding to each object (in case of an object-oriented language) or its main structure. The first runs came with several errors regarding the matrix generation and handling, slowing down the project in a near future. Using GitHub, it was easier to attack these problems in parallel, having one developer reviewing different functions and the other one, fixing other bugs and continue the testing phase. Also, this was achieved in an easier way, thanks to that each function was coded in an independent R file, making easier and faster the debugging and the fixing of each problem.\
\
[^2]: Comprehensive R Archive Network. \
[^3]: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/testthat/index.html"}}{\fldrslt https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/testthat/index.html}}\
[^4]: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/index.html"}}{\fldrslt https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/index.html}}\
}